you want to have your own thing you want
people to know who you are maybe what
you've been doing is gotten too easy
you're bored with it and you want to
transition into something new but you
don't know what that is or maybe you
know what the thing is you're just not
clear on how to help people figure out
how to find you well you are in luck
because that is what we're talking about
here today on the build your tribe
podcast my name is shelene Johnson I am
the co-host of the build your tribe
podcast and if you're watching on
YouTube may I ask for you to do a quick
solid for Rock and I please double check
and make sure that you're subscribed
this channel is growing like crazy
because of you because you've been
taking the time to like you know make
sure you're subscribed and also hitting
the Bell notification and that's how
you'll know when there are new episodes
and do yourself a favor and scroll back
through some of our recent episode
titles and you know just check out the
ones you're like okay that could totally
help me in particular I did one recently
where I talked about how important it is
for people in I want to say midlife but
I guess people people disagree on what
age that is like if you're over 35 or
over 40 and you're thinking like is it
too late for me to start a brand no like
it's the best time ever so be sure to
check out that episode of build your
tribe I will link to it below in our
show description as well and as a matter
of fact it is because of the
overwhelming number of questions I got
from that episode that I wanted to do
this follow-up episode the most common
concerns and questions really revolved
around a couple things number one how do
I pick my thing like how do I narrow it
down how do I know what my thing is
number two how do I help people find me
like how do I establish a social media
following how do I help people know like
this is what I'm doing so first let's
talk about this concept because you hit
the nail on the head there's figuring
out what your brand is which is really
and I'm boiling this down I'm
oversimplifying it but it's your
reputation it's how people describe you
when you're not around it's the little
things about you that people remember
it's the little things about you that
make you slightly different different
from other people who do the same thing
that you do what do I mean by that like
if you look at someone like an Alex
Heros is he that different from lots of
other entrepreneurs no but there are
little subtle things that he's not
trying to do but he's also not trying to
hide them it's doubling down on the
things that make us just a little bit
different I think people always assume
that your brand you have to be like so
unique that everyone remembers you it's
not that what you have to be is
consistent about putting forward the
things that do make you different for
example Alex heroi everyone knows him as
wearing you know the little nose
breathed band over his nose a baseball
cap a plaid shirt over a T-shirt and
usually he's wearing a hat with his
company logo so even just those simple
things like does that make him
completely unique no it doesn't but it
it does make them a little bit memorable
someone like a a Gary vaynerchuk again
you picture how casual he dresses you
recognize his voice and I'm sure
considering how much media he's done
there have been people who suggested
that he do some kind of vocal training
to change his voice and maybe other
people some of us we do that we we try
to change parts of ourselves so that we
look more like the other people who are
doing it and it's such a mistake double
down on the things that are truly you
because that's what makes you just a
little bit different it's what makes
people remember you it's like Dolly
Parton like I love using Dolly Parton as
an example because she's like nobody
else like there's no one else like Dolly
Parton and she doubled down on the
things that people teased her for and
mocked her for I mean all the way back
into the 50s and 60s she knew her brand
and she doubled down on it so that's
part of you set yourself apart from
other
people and there's so many things that
make you just a little bit different
from everybody else and you don't put
all all of them out there but you put
the ones out there that you're like this
like I'm proud of this like I like this
about me put that out there even if it
feels like oh this does not conform for
example when I first started doing
Fitness videos I remember I I showed up
to the first shoot and they were like
you have so much makeup on like we you
know this is a fitness video we need to
make you look all natural you're going
to have to take off those Hoops the
hairspray what you're doing with your
hair the out I had like these crazy
outfits I would wear with like belts and
boots and crazy stuff and I was like
you know I luckily I had a producer who
understood like that's part of what
would make my program successful they
weren't like insanely oddly different
things they're just slightly different
the things that will help people
remember you which will help you to
become known are just those little
things that make you just a little bit
different from other people they're not
huge but you should right now like
really think about like what are some of
those things think about it the things
you're like I don't want to change this
like this is who I am becoming known is
the biggest challenge to having your
brand meaning you H having your
reputation make you more money bottom
line so whether it's in a job or you
trying to get people to follow you on
social media you trying to grow a
business all of that is dependent upon
who knows you because no matter how good
you are no matter how great the product
or service or what it is you offer is no
one cares and no one's going to find you
unless people are talking about you
right it's not like if you build it they
will come like no you have to build it
and you have to promote it and the
biggest step to promoting it is you
identifying it like you defining who are
you Muhammad Ali is a great example he
always told people what his brand
was he was the greatest of all time
right he was the greatest one time I
think he said I can't remember the exact
quote but he said I'm the double
greatest because I will not KN you out
and I would predict the round it's going
to happen in unlike I love it Dolly
Parton defined herself very early in her
career as a backwoods Barbie a more
recent example for those of you who are
in the fitness industry Brett contras if
I've said that name when you're in the
fitness industry you immediately thought
oh that's the glute guy he's the glute
guy he has branded himself as the glute
guy and he's memorable because that's
all he talks about now are there a
million like literally a million other
fitness trainers doing hip thrusts and
squats and helping women build their
booties of course so what is it about
Brett contras that made him such a
memorable brand well let's start there
because this applies regardless of the
industry that you're in whether you're
starting your own business or you're
trying to make a name for yourself in
your industry as trying to you know get
a promotion in your job whatever it is
you need to be known for things and the
way that we do this is with Integrity so
things that Brett did he told people I'm
the glute guy I'm the glute guy and even
though I believe he has a PHD if I'm not
mistaken I know he's got an advanced
degree he just talks in a way that
everyone understands it he I don't want
to say dumbed down but he made the
information accessible there's so many
neuroscientists and phds and you know
Advanced degreed kinesiologists and
scientists who they speak in a way like
they're talking to each other and BR
contras made a name for himself because
he was talking to you he was talking to
the consumer he made a name for himself
because he dressed a little differently
he always wore like jean shorts he made
a name for himself because he just
believed in helping women build their
booties like the hip thrust and that's
part of what you need to do is like to
double down and Define what makes you
just a little bit different and then
know your Niche and that was probably
the other huge overwhelming number of
comments that I got in that last video
was like how do I know my Niche how do I
know what my thing is right so your
Niche is like the one thing that you
specialize in when I moved to let me
back up in case you didn't see that last
video and I'll just recap in case you
did but you know I grew up a daughter of
an entrepreneur and I had lots of
different businesses to put myself
through college I sold cars literally
sold used cars I flip them you know I
would buy them and then resell them I
started to use Car Lot called the all
Michigan auto swap meet I was in an MLM
I was in a network marketing business in
college I was working as a pargal I was
working as a Kors light girl I was any
kind of business or hust side hustle I
could fit into my day I did it oh and I
taught Fitness classes at Michigan State
as part of like the university program
and I don't know if you've ever been to
like a fitness class at a university
especially a group exercise class
they're just packed because they're free
and and I don't even think I was paid I
think it was like a volunteer thing but
because I was teaching at the University
like the classes were packed and so
therefore I
assumed I must be really good like look
at all these people then I moved to
Southern California and it was a rude
awakening because I went to gym to gym
to gym and like no one would hire me
they were all
like wow like you're so bad basically
that's what they said I mean they didn't
say but they said it you know what I'm
saying and I just could could not get a
job eventually I did get hired as a
fitness instructor I started teaching
Fitness classes then I double down I
started getting like all these degrees
and certifications like I was getting um
as many personal training and group
exercise any Fitness related
certification I got it I started
building then a personal training
business and then I started writing
personal training how to start a
personal training business books and I
was just doing so many different things
plus I was also trying to Market myself
as somebody who could teach other women
how to start a business from home
because I you know put myself through
college by starting these other
businesses and all of those things were
making me some money but I had a million
balls in the air and I'm like I I'm good
at all these things I can't pick one I'm
good at all of them so I'm just going to
keep doing all of them and I'm going to
make more money but that's not how it
works it's not how it works and I need
to have the serious conversation with
you the way my mentor had it with me and
he was very Frank and said you're just
never going to make it you're always
going to be struggling until you become
known for like one thing you want to be
all these things your life is going to
be so much harder until you become known
for one thing and that's true for you
too and I know what you're feeling how
do I pick how do I know what the right
one is I'm going to help you narrow it
down but just know this you won't know
with 100% certainty until you go for it
and if you believe this is it it will be
okay to figure this out with some more
clarity remember we're never going to
have 100% certainty but so that you have
a more clear idea of what the right one
is I want you to start by drawing three
circles we're going to do a VIN diagram
okay and then your and I'll put a little
graphic up on the screen but here's my
my my little handdrawn in the first
Circle I want you to list all the
possibilities the things that you could
do the things that either you've done
them in the past you want to do them
based on some experience or knowledge
expertise that you've had or there
things that you're doing right now like
all the things that are possibilities
things that you could do to make money
things that you you enjoy and you have
to have some passion for these but don't
worry about which one is the most
passionate however what I do want you to
think about is the ones that if you
you're just like I I refuse to do it
because it makes me feel dead inside
don't put those even as a possibility in
the second Circle I want you to look at
all of the things in your first Circle
and the one that has the possibility to
make the most money in the next 1 to
three years whatever of these three
ideas you're like okay like one of these
these ideas let's say oh that's that
would take 10 years to build it but
there's another one where you're like I
can start making money at that like
within the next year to three years okay
then that's the one I want you to put
towards the center of your vend diagram
okay but list all of them here and then
in this last Circle I want you to list
the one out of again all of these in the
air in the circle of possibilities I
want you to put the one near this the
center of your ven diagram that in terms
of timing even if it's the one not the
one you're the most passionate about in
terms of timing you can make money at it
like now like right now like the timing
is ideal because there's demand because
you're already have started because you
already have traction like whatever it
is whatever one or two things shows up
in the center of this Vin diagram that's
probably where you should start and
that's exactly what I did it wasn't the
thing I was the most passionate about or
the thing that I you know thought I was
even the most qualified to do and that
was Fitness so I took all the balls out
of the air and I focused on one thing
and you have to do that you have to
focus on just one thing until you become
known for that thing the way you become
known for something is by doubling down
and making that your exclusive thing
until the point where you're like I am
this is is this the only thing I'm
talking about you're going to feel like
a one-trick pony that's the only way
you're going to grow on social media
that's the only way you're going to
build that reputation where people are
talking about you nobody talks about the
person who does all the things right
when you tell a friend like I've got
this like strange back thing that's not
been I just can't get to go away they're
like I got a guy this is like all he's
like he's like the back Guru he's like
the back witch doctor right you when we
think about how we refer to other people
we we rarely tell others about this
person we know who can do everything we
talk about people specialize that's
called your Niche and you have to Niche
down more than what you think you should
so if you're like oh yeah I talk about
helping people to get happier and
healthier that's not that's not specific
enough and if you want me to do an
entire episode just devot we've done
them actually so if you're a regular
subscriber to build your tribe the audio
podcast we've done so many great
episodes I'm going to link to them even
if you're watching this on YouTube I'm
going to link to our past episodes that
we've done on how to find your Niche so
we can go further into that but like
it's it's really just like you just pick
it people always say to me like how do I
find my Niche I'm like you don't find it
you just decide it Fitness didn't find
me I didn't find Fitness I just declared
it I just picked one of my interest
that's what you have to do just pick one
I picked the one that I wasn't even the
most confident about I'm like what am I
doing I have no business doing this I
don't have an exercise physiology degree
my degree is in Justice morality and
constitutional democracy what am I
freaking doing I'm going for it that's
what I'm doing and then I told people
what my brand is I told people what my
reputation was I told people what made
me different I told people
I'm not the scientist I'm not the person
who's going to know about the
biomechanics or tell you about those
things I'm going to make you have so
much freaking fun when you're working
out you are going to get lost in the
experience of music I was a DJ I mean I
learned how to mix the music using Pro
Tools and the music and the outfits like
all of that was my brand it wasn't about
like did I know the most about Fitness
was I the leanest was no you're going to
have so much freaking fun you're going
to forget that you're working out that
was my brand
and that's what I told people I did I
never told people that I was the expert
at Fat Loss or exercise Kinesiology I
I'm I was the girl who would make sure
you had fun and so double down on those
little things that you know make you
just a little bit different and then
never stop talking about like for a year
I'm encouraging you to like just pick
one thing and go for it for a year but
what most of you will do unfortunately
is you're going to get nervous because
if that's the only thing you're talking
about on your social you can expect
you're going to lose some followers why
wouldn't you cuz a lot of the people are
following you for like all the things
but that's not what you want you want
people to follow you because you're the
fill-in-the blank
person so go back and watch the video
where I showed you how to change your
Instagram bio I think it's the best
place to start you can do this on
Facebook you can do this on Tik Tok but
start with your bio by telling people
what kind of content you post I don't
need to know what you do I don't need to
know who you help I just want what kind
of cont content do you post and then
make sure that your content matches the
promise of your bio your bio is telling
people what it is you post your content
telling people what it is you do and
those two things need to match
up it's giving yourself a tagline like
Muhammad Ali or Richard Simmons or Dolly
Parton or Brett contras or Alex rosi or
any number of people it's just letting
people know this is who I am and then
keep showing up with Integrity in that
same way yeah it does take time and it
can be really frustrating it does not
happen overnight and if it did a lot
more people would be known that's the
secret that's it the question is will
you do it the question is do you have
the discipline because it's hard it is
really hard when you feel like God
there's so many things I could do and I
could be teaching and I could be showing
people and uh oh I'm losing followers uh
oh uh what if I'm losing business over
here no I'm telling you double down on
this and you will get there so much
faster than anybody else the slower you
are to Niche the less niched you are the
less specific you are the slower your
brand is going to grow and the the lower
the ceiling on your earnings I'm going
to list a couple of great books for you
to read on the subject or listen to I I
love listening to audibles there's a
book actually called known which I think
is phenomenal for this concept because
it really factors in social media I
think that's probably the first one I
would recommend and for those of you who
like you know like to listen listen
again I I will link to a couple of the
episodes we've done on niching down like
figuring out your thing cuz you you just
got to do that but I'm telling you
you're never going to have 100% Clarity
you just have to freaking go for it
listen it's my goal to be brief to be
bright to make it fun and then be done
again if you can just do me a solid and
make sure that you leave a comment and
tell me what it is you're struggling
with us in in this area or what your aha
moment was from this episode I would
love to hear from you please make sure
that you are subscribed we really do
appreciate you and we'll see you
[Music]
soon